1. What is Git ?
   
   Git is a distributed version control system (DVCS) widely used for managing and tracking changes to files in software development projects.
   It is generally used for source code management in software development.

   It is most suitable when there are multiple people working on projects as a team and is used for tracking the project changes and 
   efficiently supports the collaboration of the development process.

   a. Git is used to tracking changes in the source code.
   b. It allows multiple developers to work together.
   3. It supports non-linear development through its thousands of parallel branches

   Some key features and concepts of Git include:
    1.Repository
    2.Commit
    3.Branch
    4.Merge
    5.Remote
    6.Pull and Push

   Features of Git:
        Tracks history
        Free and open source
        Supports non-linear development
        Creates backups
        Scalable
        Supports collaboration
        Branching is easier
        Distributed development

2. Different Commands in Git ?
   
    Git config
    Git init
    Git add
    Git diff
    Git commit
    Git reset
    Git status
    Git merge
    Git push
    Git pull

3. What is GitHub ?

4. What is version control system (VCS)?

    In Git, a version control system (VCS) is a software tool that helps manage and track changes to files and directories in a project. Git is 
    a distributed version control system (DVCS), which means that every developer working on a project has their own local copy of the entire repository, 
    including its complete history.

    The version control system, in this case, Git, provides several benefits, including:

    Tracking Changes
    Collaboration
    Branching and Merging
    History and Rollbacks
    Conflict Resolution
    Remote Repositories

    By using a version control system like Git, developers can maintain a complete history of a project, easily collaborate with others, track 
    changes, and efficiently manage the development process. It provides a structured and organized approach to software development, ensuring 
    that changes are tracked, conflicts are resolved, and the project's history is well-documented. 

5. What does git clone do?

    The clone command creates a copy (or clone) of an existing git repository. Generally, it is used to get a copy of the remote repository to 
    the local repository.

6. What does the command git config do?

    Git uses your username to associate commits with an identity. The git config command can be used to change your Git configuration, including your username.
        
        Suppose you want to give a username and email id to associate a commit with an identity so that you can know who has made a particular commit. For that I will use:

        git config –global user.name “Your Name”: This command will add a username.
        git config –global user.email “Your E-mail Address”: This command will add an email id. 

7. What is the difference between Git and SVN?

                                        Git	                                                                        SVN
                    Git is a Decentralized Version Control tool                                 SVN is a  Centralized Version Control tool

                    Git stores content in the form of metadata.                                 SVN stored data in the form of files.

                    Clients can clone entire repositories on their local systems                Version history is stored on a server-side repository

                    Commits are possible even if offline                                        Only online commits are allowed
                    
                    Push/pull operations are faster                                             Push/pull operations are slower

                    Works are shared automatically by commit                                    Nothing is shared automatically

8. What is a commit message?

    The command that is used to write a commit message is “git commit -m 'Your commit message' ”.

9. How can you fix a broken commit?

    In order to fix any broken commit, use the command “git commit --amend”. When you run this command, you can fix the broken commit message in the editor.

10. How can you create a repository in Git?

    To create a repository, create a directory for the project if it does not exist, then run the command “git init”. By running this command .git directory will be 
    created in the project directory.

11. Name a few Git commands and explain their usage.



12. What is Git Bash?

    Git Bash is an application that installs Bash, Git, and a few Bash utilities that are commonly used on a Windows OS.

10. What is the meaning of “Index” or “Staging Area” in GIT?


11. What is Repository ?

   In Git, a repository is a central location where a project's version-controlled files and their complete history are stored. It serves as 
   a storage space for the project's source code, as well as any other files and directories related to the project.
   A repository in Git can exist either locally on your computer or remotely on a server.
   
   Local repositories are typically used for individual development, allowing you to track changes, commit revisions, and maintain a complete 
   history of your project on your own machine. 
   
   Remote repositories, on the other hand, enable collaboration and allow multiple developers to work on the same project. They provide a centralized 
   location where developers can push their changes and pull the changes made by others.

   To create a new repository in Git, you can use the 'git init' command in the directory where you want to start version controlling your project. 

12. What is different bw git fetch and git pull?

13. What is git base and git merged?

14. What is ccherry pick in Git?

15. How to create branch and delete the branch?

16. How to resolve the merge Conflict in git?

17. It is possible to push the code one local repo to another local repo?

18. What is stash

19. Diff b/w Git revert and Git reset?

20. 